# RetroTxt - Privacy

#### RetroTxt does not collect or transmit any data created by your web browser.

All data generated by the web extension is only ever stored locally on your computer through the use of the browser local or session storage APIs.

## Technical

The web-extension [manifest.json](../blob/master/manifest.json) lists all the browser permissions RetroTxt requires for operation.

- `permissions` lists required permissions.
- `optional_permissions` lists optional permissions.

## RetroTxt gets these permissions automatically on installation.

### `activeTab` permission

Is needed so RetroTxt can read the current URL of the active browser tab. The URL is used to determine.

- If the URL is part of a domain that is in the Options, _Apply RetroTxt to any text files hosted on these websites_ list.
- If the URL matches `*://retrotxt.com/*`.
- If the file it is pointing to is a known text filename because it uses an extension such as `.nfo` or `.txt`.

The read URLs are never saved or transmitted, and the code for their use can be found and reviewed in `scripts\eventpage.js` under the
`checkURL()`, and `compatibleURL()` functions within the `Tab()` class.

### `contextMenus` permission

Grants RetroTxt access to the contextMenus API that allows it to create menus on the browser page and RetroTxt toolbar icon.

### `storage` permission

Grants RetroTxt access to the Storage API that allows it to save and retrieve user Options configurations to the browser.

### `*://retrotxt.com/*` permission

Grants RetroTxt access to read and parse the pages hosted on retrotxt.com, where the online example and
test files are.

## Optional permissions requests

These permissions toggle when you enable specific RetroTxt Options. The browser will prompt you for a permissions request, and if you deny this, the feature will remain off.

### `tabs` permission

Is needed to so RetroTxt can read the URL of background browser tabs for the same purpose as the `activeTab` permission.

### `downloads` and `downloads.open` permissions

Are needed by the _Apply RetroTxt to any downloaded or local text files_. RetroTxt ignores all downloads except those which match the following conditions.

- The file has a MIME type of either `text/plain`, `text/x-nfo`, `text-unknown`.
- The text file content does not begin with the characters `<!` or `<?` which are usually HTML or scripts.

The code can be found and reviewed in `scripts\eventpage.js` under the `Downloads()` class.

### `file:///*/` permission

Is needed by the _Apply RetroTxt to any local text files file:///_ and the `_Apply RetroTxt to any downloaded or local text files_` options so RetroTxt can run on text files stored on the host computer's hard drive. RetroTxt ignores all files except
those which match the following conditions.

- The tab URI is not a directory.
- The filename contains one of these file extensions, `asc`, `ascii`, `ans`, `ansi`, `diz`, `faq`, `nfo`, `pcb`, `text`, `txt`.

The code can be found and reviewed in `scripts\eventpage.js` under the `compatibleURL()` function within the `Tab()` class.

### `*://*.somewebsite.com/*` permissions

The other domains listed in `optional_permissions` are for the _Apply RetroTxt to any text files hosted on these websites_ option,
and they operate in the same way as the `*://retrotxt.com/*` permission.
